# Seminar: Intelligent Software Systems
This repository contains my [seminar paper](Seminar&#32;Paper.pdf) "Quantitative Comparison of Constrained Variational Autoencoders Regarding their Ability to Learn Disentangled Latent Space Features" together with the corresponding data for the Intelligent Software Systems seminar at TU Berlin in the winter semester 2020/21.

In my work I compared Variational Autoencoders (VAEs) with different objective functions regarding their ability to learn disentangled latent space representations. The data I used for the comparison came from the [pretrained disentanglement_lib modules](https://github.com/google-research/disentanglement_lib#pretrained-disentanglement_lib-modules). The [disentanglement_lib](https://github.com/google-research/disentanglement_lib) is an open source library which was developed by Oliver Bachem and Francesco Locatello as part of their paper
> F. Locatello _et al._, “[Challenging Common Assumptions in the Unsupervised Learning of Disentangled Representations](https://proceedings.mlr.press/v97/locatello19a.html),” in _Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Machine Learning_, May 2019, pp. 4114–4124.

In total, data from 10.800 training runs were analyzed for the comparison. In this repository the data is sorted by data sets in the folders [cars3d](cars3d), [color_dsprites](cars3d), [dsprites_full](dsprites_full), [noisy_dsprites](noisy_dsprites), [scream_dsprites](scream_dsprites) and [smallnorb](smallnorb). Each folder contains the data from 1.800 training runs (6 VAEs * 6 hyperparameter settings * 50 random seeds) together with the scores on different disentanglement metrics. The data is available in detailed and aggregated form (average over the 50 different random seeds) in the `.xlsx`, `.csv` and `.pkl` file format. The latter can be used for further analysis with pandas. In the folder [plots](plots) larger versions of the graphs from the seminar paper can be found.